# county_index
Data for the Tiebout County Index project.

This study builds on the history of economic well-being index construction to develop such an index for U.S. counties. Unlike previous studies, we rely on external validation of economic well-being to construct a best-fit index, where our external validation approach follows the Tiebout Hypothesis. We estimate a best-fit, linear regression-based index, in which lagged features of economic well-being are weighted based on ability to explain subsequent county population change. We consider a broad set of available economic well-being indicators, paring the model in two steps via a Variance Inflation Factor analysis and further via a forward-stepwise model selection algorithm. We obtain a specification that limits multicollinearity and selects explanatory variables based on Tiebout sorting importance. Unlike the case of an arbitrarily equally-weighted model, elements of the pared model—explanatory variables selected, best-fit estimated weightings, and inferential statistics therefrom—are meaningful. The approach also provides an overall test of the Tiebout Hypothesis. By comparison, historical economic well-being indexes, such as the HDI, include unvalidated, and therefore ad hoc, variable weightings that are set at equality. Lagged, weighted EWB variables explain substantial variation in latent county population change across counties (19.9%). An F-test confirms that the overall model is highly significant as evidence of the Tiebout Hypothesis. Lastly, we find that the unrestricted model with best-fit weightings explains more variation in population movement than a traditional unweighted or restricted model (19.9% versus 15.7%). Further, the unrestricted model is significantly better specified than the restricted model according to an Akaike Information Criterion test.  

`cleaned_data\top_model_FE_rank_disaggregate_data.csv`: data used for training the models. Includes percentages, ranks, and predictions.